# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
These are instanciated in the console.rb file when we new up an instance, in this case property1, property2, property3

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
def save() # CREATE, on line 16 of property.rb (the save function)

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
Property.delete_all()
property1.save()
property2.save()
property3.save()
property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
The db takes care of numbering for us, as we specified SERIAL4, and as a PRIMARY KEY

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
Specified in the initialize function of property.rb @id = options['id'].to_i if options['id']

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
It can only use the id, if it has an id.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
This specifies if the function is local to an instance, or more global involving the whole table.
For example property1.delete deletes property1, but Properties.delete_all would delete all properties

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
This is a hash in an array. There is only one item tis array, so it is accessed by using [0]["id"].to_i
0 is the first item in the array, and "id" refers to the id key in the hash

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
The prepared statements are the syntax of SQL. It is these that the database understands.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
def Property.find_by_address(address), here (address) is the arguments
found_property = Property.new(property_hash), here (property_hash) is the argument.

Q11. What are their return values?

def Property.find(id) # READ returns
return nil if results_array.first() == nil
or
return found_property

def Property.find_by_address(address) returns
return nil if results_array.first() == nil
or
return found_property
